{"md_content":"# The Torch Of Destiny  \n\n# Chapter 1: Dark Night  \n\nOne foggy night, a man in a red t-shirt and black skinny jeans was walking through a mysterious alleyway and the man found a kid being beaten down. You can tell from the amount of blood that it was over and the Teenager who was doing it needed to stop. “HEY STOP!\" the man says, as the teenager turns around. “What do you want, you old man!?.”  “I want you to leave that little girl alone. NOW.” said the old man, \"Oh, that's not happening and if you don't leave I will do the same to you.” said the teenager with his bloody fists.  \n\n“Look you don't know who I am so if I were you I would leave and back off.” said the old man annoyed, “Look, old man, I told you once that I was not going to listen so either leave and knock off the dumb stuff and mind your own business!” shouted the teenager. The man replies, “I don’t know who you think you're talking to. Hasn’t your parents taught you to respect your elders?” the teenager gets angry and says, “Just shut up, old man.” The old man clenches his fists. The teenager clenches his fist as well and throws a strong punch at the old man. The old man dodges the hit as the teenager starts to fall forward from the old man's block.  \n\nThe teenager loses balance and slowly falls to his knees. The old man says, “Look, you don’t want to test me”, \"Trust me”. The teenager says, “How did you dodge that?” The old man replies “It's not hard. “You're just a teenager so just go to school and stop picking on little kids you're going to get yourself Hurt.” The teenager scoffs then replies, “Why? I'm not going to learn anything useful and this is fun to me.” The old man replies in an annoyed tone, “Look, the school will help you to make a future for yourself and it will help you to make friends”. The teenager replies in a mumbling tone, \"I understand, but it's just not for me”. The old man sighs then spoke softly, “I understand that it might not be for you but there are different types of schools you just need to find the one for you..” The teenager looked up at the old man, then nodded and the old man shook hands and the teenager said, “Thank you..”  \n\nThe teenager turns back around and says “Hey old man what's your name?” The old man smiled as he turned to the teenager and then said “My first name is Luke and my last name is Richards” The teenager’s eyes widened with shock and said, \"Because.. I recognize you. I think you're my brother…” Luke replies shocked and worried “Y-You're my little brother?..” Luke hesitated then spoke again in a quiet voice, “Tyler is that you..?”  Luke said, Tyler then replied “Yes..but..but what happened to Mom and Dad?” Luke sighed and rubbed his knuckles, then said, “I will explain later Tyler..just not now..” he smiled at the little girl to calm her, he then watched the little girl get up off the floor, and walked off in a sprint walk and out of the alley, a bit bloody and dirty.  \n\n# Chapter 2: Blazing Truth  \n\n“So what happened to Mom and Dad?” “They were In the house and they were asleep when the fire started when I was three years old.”  Tyler replies “Oh..how did it start and what happened?” Luke replies \"I don't know but all I know was that I was seeing blue and Cyan flames with smoldering heat but somehow I was untouched.” Tyler replies shocked and worried, “Wow.. that's weird do you know who started It?”.  \n\nLuke replies \"I don’t know why?” Tyler replies “Well the color of the flames sounds familiar.” Luke replies “Now I'm worried”. Tyler replies “Do you think that the person who started the fire could have been.” “Hades.” Luke stares at Tyler, shocked and terrified. Tyler said, “Do you want to go to the house and look and see if you can find any evidence?”  \n\n” Luke replies “Yeah that might be a good idea.” Tyler responds “Yeah.” Luke replies, \"Well, do you want to ride with me and head to the old house?\" Tyler replies “Yeah but do you have any gifts or things from our parents.” Luke replies. “Actually yeah they gave me this red and black ring.” the ring starts glowing red. Tyler replies “Is it supposed to do that?” Luke replies “I don’t know but we are by the front door and about to walk out so I'm not sure.”  \n\n“Do you want to go in?” Tyler says. “Yeah, it would help to look around,” Luke says. Tyler responds “Are you sure that you're ready?” Luke puts his hand on the dark yellow door knob. Luke turns it and opens the door. “Luke be careful.” Tyler says. Luke responds “Well this is our old home.” This place has not really changed well except for the black ash marks around the steps and walls.”  \n\n“Yeah I know. Do you want to look around and see if we can find any clues as to where the fire came from?” They were quiet at first. “Yea.” Luke says as he turns to his right and sees a glass bottle shining. “What are you looking at, Luke?” Tyler says. Luke picks up a glass bottle. “There is something inside the bottle,”  \n\n“What is that?” Tyler says  “I don’t know. It looks like some sort of paper.” Tyler and Luke read what's on the old brown messed up paper  \n\n# Chapter 3: A Message From The Ashes  \n\n“To my two sons.” “Lukas and Tyler I know that you will see this letter one day but the person who set the fire.” “His name can not be disclosed but the person is down in the underworld.” “but before you do anything or think about getting revenge.” “please remember that I was at war with that person. but lukas the reason we gave you your ring was so you can keep the legacy going.” “the legacy of helping and protecting people but you probably don't know or didn’t realize then you have powers my boy.” “pyrokinesis.”  \n\n“Lukas you were too young and you didn’t have a clue but you activated your powers one night when I was In the front room I heard you crying so I came into your room to check on you and you lit your blanket on fire.” “That's why you didn’t get burned in the fire.” “But your suit and motorcycle are in the ring.” But if you are trying to access it, the code to the ring is “PYRO BURN!” “To my kids please do the right thing but just know I'm proud of you.” Tyler I hope you got out of the hospital and I'm sorry for the fire because I know you got badly injured.\" Luke says after reading the note “Wow I can’t believe that I have powers after all these years.”  \n\n”Well try it, test it out.” Tyler says. “Fine,\" Luke replies “PYRO BURN!.” Luke yells. A ball of fire covers Lukes entire body out of the ashes. Tyler sees a suit with running fire with black and maroon around the cuffs of his wrists and  on the cuff of his ankles. “Luke, your eyes,”  Tyler says.  “What about my eyes?”  Luke replies.  \n\n“They're fully white! You don’t have any pupils.” Tyler says in question. “Well, do you want to see what I can do?” Tyler spoke, “Yeah, but remember we need to look for evidence and then we can check out our powers later.” Luke said, “Hey look I have a quick question” Tyler says “What is it?” Luke responds. “Well what made you change your name?” Tyler said, confused.  \n\n# Chapter4: secrets of the Past  \n\n“You asked why I changed my name from Lukas to Luke.” Luke  says “yes.” Tyler responds. “Ok well let me go back to the fire, after the fire I didn’t know if we were being hunted or not so after child care I changed my name to keep from being hunted.” Luke said. “But how did you keep that a secret? \" Tyler said. “Well I wasn’t trying to and with you being in a coma after the fire I didn't want any unwanted trouble going after you so I kept it a secret but I'm sorry.”  \n\nLuke says.” Like what unwanted trouble are you talking about ?” Tyler asks. “Well I was being hunted by something with claws and stuff. It had a fiery look and they also had vanes of living fire.” “Wait like a Hell hound right.” Tyler said. “Yes, but the problem is what that thing could have possibly have wanted and why.” Luke said.  \n\n“I don’t know but we need to find out and then look for the one who started the fire and get some answers on how the war started and then what the hell hounds could have possibly wanted.“ Tyler says to luke. “right but I need to find out what I can do with my powers and what it could mean and if we have a secret hideout or something.”   Luke says to Tyler. “Yea hey Luke what if you hold the note you might be able to uncover some coordinates or something to a lair or a place there has to be something.” Tyler says to Luke. “It might but there is still a lot to do and more questions to be answered,” Luke says to Tyler.  \n\nLuke picks up the note again and looks at the Back as the coordinates randomly appear “what in the world did we not see these coordinates on the back of this thing?” wait, these coordinates look like they're in the underworld.\" Luke says to Tyler. “Luke, are you ready for this? “And are you sure you're ready to fight?” “Have you even trained?”  \n\nTyler says in a scared and worried voice “Yes i'm sure and I know I'm ready and i've trained day and night im sure im ready it's time to get justice for what happened 22 years ago!” alright because it's not going to be easy but I understand if you want to wait and prepare.\" Tyler says to Luke as they leave the burnt house they start heading home so they  cut through and start going through the back alleyway as they see someone with red eyes staring at them “Luke!” the shadowy figure says to luke.  \n\n# Chapter 5: A new flame  \n\n“Who are you? And what do you” luke says to the shadowy figure “Who I am does not concern you!” the shadowy figure says to luke. “Ok if your name isn’t my business then what are you here for and what are you planning to do.” Luke says to the shadowy figure. “I'm here to begin my mission !” The shadowy  figure says in a serious and powerful voice with a growl.  \n\n“Look I don’t know you and I don't know what your mission is so either show yourself and tell me who you are or you will get burned so choose your pick !.” Luke says to the shadowy figure. “Kid, I don't need to listen  to you !” the shadowy figure says to Luke. “Look, I'm not going to care if you leave but at least tell me who you are.”  Luke says to the shadowy figure. “Have you ever heard the name supreme wolf?”  \n\nthe shadowy figure asks Luke. “Yes, but still who are you really?” Luke responds to the shadowy figure. Why should I tell you I know the roomers but I don't know you personally and I won't because you can’t and won't do anything to me!” Luke says to the shadowy figure. “Fine, I will show myself.” the shadowy figure says to Luke and reveals himself. Is this what you wanted!?” “Who are you?” Luke asks the shadowy figure.  \n\n“My name is Miguel Pierce and I am known as the supreme wolf.” Miguel says to “luke. Wait, so you're a werewolf?” Luke asks miguel. “Yes but it does have its ups and downs due to the full moon and the lunar eclipse.” Miguel replies to luke. “Ok but  how did you become a werewolf in the first place?”  \n\nLuke asks miguel. “So you want my back story I see so I was out with one of my friends at the time and I heard that there was a dead body so I me and one of my friends went looking to find the body and to see if we could figure out what really happened but while trying to do that I wondered of and I see a lot of  deer start running and then I hear something growling from behind me and I get bitten by an alpha werewolf and that's the back story.” Miguel says to Luke. “wow so did you rise above the rinks or is that just a myth?” Luke asks miguel. “Yes actually I did because there was a fight and in the middle of that fight I Became a true alpha.\" Miguel explains to Luke. “Ok but what is a true alpha?  \n\nI'm sorry for asking so many questions but ive never met a werewolf before.” Luke says to Miguel. A true alpha is a type of alpha that can rise by the force of its own will and that's what I did but it wasn’t easy.” Miguel says to Luke. ok now it makes more sense but what mission are you here for?” Luke asks miguel. My mission is about dracula, I have a lead that said dracula was trying to get in contact with a powerful person so I came here trying to stop him and see where he was going. Miguel says to luke  \n\n# Chapter 6: Power Within  \n\n“Ok just hold on a second you are saying some crazy stuff like dracula and some contact !” Tyler says to Miguel in an annoyed voice. “We just met you and you're saying all of this weird stuff. How can we trust you? after all you're a stranger and you could be evil for all we know!” Tyler says to miguel. “Ok I understand you don't trust me but if you don’t want to help then stay out of my way !”  \n\nMiguel says to Luke and Tyler. I don’t care what you want us to do but if it deals with evil we won't take orders from you just because you're an alpha doesn’t make you my alpha so step off and we will figure out what's going on.\" Luke says to Miguel with a stern and commanding voice. “I told you to stay out of my way!” “No!” Luke puts his ring on. “What is that ring supposed to do?”  Miguel asks to luke. “You're about to find out !”  \n\nLuke says to Miguel as Miguel activates his claws. “PYRO BURN !” Luke says to activate his suit and swords his swords that are sharper than bedrock . “What do you think you're going to do to me? I have claws and increased strength and hearing.” Miguel says to Luke. ok and Look we are both people that are wanting to help and figure out what's going  on so instead of fighting you could just try to get along to get this job done or we could fight and see who is stronger.” Luke says to Miguel.  \n\n“fine but the first place we look, is the underworld understood?” Miguel says to Luke. “Okay but for the reckard how do we get down there? because we are both part human and Tyler is completely human.” Luke asks  Miguel. “Well you have a connection to the fire element is that correct?  Miguel asks luke. “Well In a way yes but there's a problem I can't fully control it and what are we going to do and what can we do to get down there?” Luke asks Miguel “try to use your powers and shoot at the ground.”  \n\nMiguel Tells Luke. “ok.” Luke shoots fire at the concrete behind his mansion with full power as a portal to the underworld begins to open. “Let's go and end this.” wait but if you guys go in you may never come out are you sure? Are you willing to do that? Tyler  \n\nasked. “Yes it's about time we figure this out and end it if we need to but if we don’t come back I love you  my brother.”  \n\nLuke says to Tyler with a smile with a handshake Luke puts his hand out, Tyler shakes his hand. Go figure this out and end it. Tyler says to Luke  \n\n# Chapter7: Beginning of the End  \n\nLuke and Miguel jump into the fiery portal on the floor. “Wow, well we are here.”  Luke says to Miguel in shock. “We are here now, let's find Hades, wait a sec, is that a hellhound?” Miguel says to Luke with an angered tone. What are you doing here, humans, leave now or I will Be forced to kill you!”  The hellhound said to both Luke and Miguel.  \n\n“No we are not leaving until we see Hades.” Luke says to the hellhound. “I Said Leave !” The hellhound roars at Luke and Miguel. “Look either you let us go talk to hade and get out of the way because you can’t take both of us so let us go.”  Luke says to the hellhound trying to move forward.  Why should I let you go ?  \n\nthe hellhound says in a commanding voice. “Look, we are trying to find out the past and what happened to my father so I can understand why the house fire really started and why the war began so either move or Die!.” Luke says in a threatening and angry voice. “Excuse me, do you know what I am?. threatening me is not a good idea. You fool I will keep you here in hell or worse you idiot, you need to understand that you are not my leader and you're not my commander so step off and Hades doesn’t want to talk to you!” the hellhound says to Luke and Miguel. “Look no matter what we are going to get to Hades,.” Miguel says to the hellhound.  \n\n“You will both need to get through me first!” the hellhound says to Luke and Miguel “Fine! Miguel now!.” Luke blasts the hellhound as Miguel uses his claws to slice the hellhound in the back. “Ouch you little rats!” the Hellhound says to Luke and Miguel in agony as the hellhound falls to his hands and knees. Luke throws a fiery punch and lands a tornado kick to the hellhound's ribs. “Are you done now or do you want more?”  \n\nLuke says to the hellhound. “Yes Please I'm done you can go.” the hellhound says as he screams. “don’t follow us and don’t call any guards or I will kill you!.” Miguel says to the hellhound. Ok I won’t call or tell any guards please don’t kill me.” the hellhound says with a scared voice.  \n\nThe hellhound takes Luke and Miguel into the throne room as a dark and powerful figure stares at both Luke and Miguel and watches their every move. The dark figure shoots out Blue flames. “Why are you here? And what do you want?” the dark figure says with a dark and evil but powerful tone.  \n\n# Chapter 8: The Inferno Duel  \n\n“Who are you? and why do you have a mask on?” Luke asks the dark figure.”Because I can and I rule this the underworld But I won't ask again who are you and why are you here and if you don’t answer I will have my hellhounds kill you then eat the flesh off of your bones.” the dark figure says to Luke and Miguel with a passionate look. My name is Luke Richards and I am here to get some answers about my family’s death because I know you did it Hades.  Luke says to hades. “How did you Know and what family child? I don't know what you're talking about so I don't have the information you want.  \n\nI'm sorry but also not sorry But for the last time who are you ! I'm done playing these games Hellhounds get them !.” Hades says to Miguel as Hades commands the hellhounds to attack. Yes sir! The hellhounds roar as they move closer with their claws razor sharp ready to cut and dig into their flesh. Miguel shifts as his eyes turn red and Miguel roars. “Stop or I will kill every last one of you fiery mutts. Look I'm looking for dracula” Miguel says to hades as Miguel gets ready for a fight. “Stand down!”  \n\nHades Yells at the hellhounds “What do you want with Dracula.” Hades said to miguel. “What I want with Dracula is to make sure he gets what he deserves.” Miguel answers Hades. “Ok but that might not be the correct answer to the situation. Aren't you a true alpha? and if so, why don’t you act like it?”  \n\nHades answers with an attitude. “Enough just give us the information we need please and just stop arguing and going back and forth. This isn’t the answer to anything but war so act your ages please and Yes Hades I know you're a Million years old and Miguel I also know you're 25 but still act the way you're supposed to okay!” Luke says as he is asking Hades and Miguel “Fine but Luke your father was a respectful guy and i'm sorry for what I did but you need to understand people die in war. But dracula went into hiding after the hole thing with the alpha but I also heard the alpha was running so there is the only info that I have so there. Hades turns his back on Luke and Miguel walks away.  \n\n“Hades Before you go, how did the war start with you and my father?” Luke asks Hades about the past. You don’t want to know bc once I tell you that you won’t be able to go Back and it will be more surprising than anything you can believe, But if you really want to know. So Me and your father Josh as I know him were best friends. Hades explains and shares his history with a saddened and angry expression. “What changed that made you go from Best friends or Brothers?” Luke is curious about the past.  “Well me and Josh your father never really fought until one day me and josh's group found some info that we had powers and it changed everything while you’re father always seen the good in things but I was corrupted by that power and that was august 5th 1112 but I looked at the president as a corrupt figure and sought to kill him but josh stopped me you know the sword I have right well I was about to kill the president but josh got in the way with the star blade a sword that can stand millions of years, the sword was made from a dying star.  \n\n“Wow, But what happened next !” Luke says with an angered look. “Luke I told You but you need to understand that people and animals alike die in war and even though you are mad I can’t do anything about that.” Thats where youre wrong you could have had mercy on Luke's father and the rest of his family but all of you stupid villains get blinded by your Pride !” Miguel finally intervenes and ends the argument. Look Like I'm well I'm sorry I should've thought about the future but I was  so angry I lost my temper and all control but I don’t know what to do  \n\n“I wish Luke and Miguel were here.” Tyler says with a sad smile while closing his eyes, Back on earth. Tyler starts to look at the note. Wait Where is the note? Found it. Wait, the letters on the note went from black to blue.” everything in his living room starts to float with as the room starts to light up with an aqua Blue color. “Do I have Powers?”  Tyler throws a Water Blast that can turn into ice. “I need to get to the underworld for back up because they will need my help! Now the only question is how do I get there?”  \n\n“Hades, you still didn’t l answer the question.” \"Where is Dracula?” Luke said to Hades. ok Yeah and It doesn’t matter if I didn’t tell you or answer your question. Hades says to both Miguel and Luke. \"Then answer the blasted question!” Miguel says to Hades with an attitude. “Hades sir we caught someone snooping around here.” the chief hellhound reports to hades.  \n\n“Throw him in the prison and I will deal with it later!” Hades orders the hellhounds. “Yes sir. But what about the other two?”  There Fine for now although let's have a little fun. Tell the Bazurcher I said to get ready for a fight and if he wins then he can eat the human.\" “Can I see who the person is?” Luke asks hades. Sure.  \n\nSo this is the dungeon. Wait Tyler, “how did you get here?” Luke asks Tyler with a shocked look and a stunned tone. I was looking at the note that dad left us and about three minutes later the whole room went blue and like a watercolor and I started realizing that I have cryokinesis which means I can control water and ice at the same time. Tyler says to Luke. “Hades, can you let him out of there? Please.”  \n\nLuke says to hades. “I'm sorry Luke but I can’t because The Bazurcher Is going to kill him so say your final goodbye !” Hades says to Luke. “No I won’t and you're gonna let him go or else !”  “Or else what? you can’t beat me on your own.” Hades says to Luke and Miguel “Hades You forget he isn’t on his own so LET HIM GO NOW! Or WE CAN MAKE THIS UGLY REAL FAST \"\"So you’re going to come to my territory and Threaten me If you're Looking for a fight you're gonna lose.”  \n\n“I would not do that If I was You Miguel or should I say supreme Alpha.” Dracula appears out of the corner of the underworld after hiding and listening to their conversation for 10 whole minutes. “Well dracula you're the vampire I have Been looking for.” Miguel says to Dracula “You're gonna leave Miguel and so will you Luke, Hellhounds get ready for a War.” Hades yells with a command to the hellhounds. “Are you sure you two want to do this” “THIS IS WAR BOY. If you can’t stand war then it's your fault you started It.” Hades says to Luke and Miguel with a dark tone. Hades powers up as dracula pulls out his sword called crimson fang. “I Don't care if you have blue flames or a sword and an army because I still have back up  \n\n“Ethan AYden combine, Hades, you and Dracula might have an army but I have a pack that is willing to help.” Miguel's pack all shows up for the brutal battle. Hades fires at Tyler.“NO! I will Kill you, You monster!” I'm not a Monster I'm reasonable and you're too weak to kill Me, I'm a God.” Luke Throws 3 punches at Hades, Hades rams Luke into a wall.  \n\n“Luke Tyler, are you alright.” Hades throws Luke Into a flaming hot volcano. “No Luke! Everyone ATTACK !” Miguel cutts the hellhounds on Hades' side and starts fighting back. Miguel throws a Hellhound Into a Spike killing the chief hellhound. “I will kill you for that!” Hades says to miguel.  \n\n“You won't get away with that.” Miguel upper cuts Hades in the face, hades grumbles in pain. How did you like that you fiery rat!?”  Hades holds his nose. “That hurt, don't do that again you idiot.: Miguel puts Dracula in a choke hold. This won’t bring back any of your best friends!”  \n\nLuke rises out of the volcano feeling stronger and more powerful, Luke has a more upgraded suit and better abilities. “It's payback time Hades!” Luke says to hades “You look stronger and tougher” Hades says to Luke. Luke pulls out a katana as Luke slowly walks towards hades. “Die” Luke swings the sword against hades.  \n\n“Pick now it's either him or me?.” Dracula says to Miguel . well I know my choice. Miguel shoves Dracula out of the way to stop Luke. “Luke don’t do it because if you kill him you won’t be any better then him please don’t do it!” Miguel says to Luke trying to plead with him. Luke puts the sword away. Fine I won’t but hades you're banished from earth for 9 years. If we find out your back on earth before your time is up aai will be sure to kill you. Do you understand me?.”Luke says to Hades as a threat and a promise.  Yes. Hades says to Luke, understanding that Luke won’t hesitate.  \n\nLuke,Tyler,Miguel and the rest of Miguel's pack. lock up dracula and start heading toward the wear they came from. “Jack Keep an eye on Hades for us.” “Miguel says to one of his pack members.” “Well This is It lets go home, How do we get out of this place” through that portal. Miguel says and Tyler points. Let's go home  \n\nEveryone makes it back and splits into their separate ways. Luke walks into his house. Luke, I have been waiting for you.  \n\nTO BE CONTINUED.  "}